The Joe Rogan experience.
The problem is is that if we have to view democratic
socialism as a moment in the larger movement
of democracy, my dear brother,
Jeff Stout is one of the great philosophers and thinkers of
democracy, calls them egalitarianism freedom traditions.
And that's simply a way of saying that if you look at the world through the
lens of the masses of people who are poor and working people,
what are the conditions under which they can have security
from domination?
What are the conditions under which they can have dignity
by holding forms of oppression at arms length. And for me,
it's not an ism.
You see if capitalism vis-a-vis feudalism can
generate liberties and freedoms I'm for it.
And that's precisely what the middle-class is did when they broke from feudalism
in Europe or broke from feudalism and other parts of the world, right?
You had to overthrow Kings and Queens in the name of personal liberties,
but those personal liberties were confined to often to white brothers with
property. And the white brothers would no property.
They either trying to hold onto their whiteness.
So they'd become like the white brothers would property or they make moral
choices and said, I want to be a person of integrity.
I want to fight with the folk who are being excluded.
And this is one of the problems and talking about race and white supremacy in
America, because you see,
we think too often in monolithic categories,
there's never been a white supremacy without fighting against white
supremacy. And that includes white brothers and sisters.
There's a tradition from Anne Braden from Myles Horton.
You'll have Highlander center. You've got that wonderful picture of Rosa parks.
She was at Highlander center four months before she was
arrested before she sat down on a bus in order to stand up for justice,
right there at Highlands on the miles Horton, who was miles Horton,
a white brother who brought black folk and white folk together,
went to union seminary, trained under Reinhold Niebuhr.
He had cousins and the KU Klux Klan. Wow.
So his Thanksgiving Denis were very complicated,
but that's true for a whole lot of white brothers who fight against white
supremacy and Brayden, uh, uh, rabbi Abraham,
Joshua Hep test show me that Zahi. You have a whole tradition of white brothers,
sisters. Who've been fighting against white supremacy.
You get into music Becks by their Beck.
He sitting at the feet of Louis Armstrong and he's a great artist.
Louie is genius of geniuses, right? And that middle-class brother from Iowa.
You asked him about white supremacy. You as Brubeck about white supremacy,
you as any of the, uh,
Paul Desmond of these folk who are connected to traditions
in which black humanity brown humanity is seen and
affirmed.
You had a point in the book, race matters.
It resonated with me that I never really thought of before.
And what you said was that because of the fact that the United States has this
deep history of slavery and the slavery of African-Americans
that white people became white people instead of Polish and German and
Italian, instead of it being like most other countries where they,
the Italians think of themselves as Italians and the Greeks or the Greeks,
those were white people.
They're all co they combine as white people. I never thought about that before.
I mean, you've got these scholars of American studies, um,
let me nail paint was one of the towering ones,
but it goes all the way back to brother Alexander and David,
David Roediger.
And some others who've been talking about the way in which whiteness was
created. Take for example, an Irish brother who calls doc Ellis island.
His people have been dealing with 800 years of vicious, British colonialism,
and imperialism,
vicious to attacks various famines that w in some ways
created, or at least enabled and so on, they get to New York.
And they're told that they're white. And they said, no, no,
because we know the British are white and we're not British. And, uh,
but then they said, yes, you are looking by the west. Look at Jamal,
look at Latitia, where are you going to go on the Jim Crow bus?
Just get off the boat from Ireland. If you go to the front,
you would vanilla folk. You go to the back, you went to chocolate folk.
What you're going to do. And for our presses, Jewish brothers and sisters,
he was even more complicated, more complicated, right?
They get there and they say, no, we not with the guy.
And we not with the Gentiles.
Y'all been oppressing us for 2000 years.
Pole groms get holes, Holocaust, vicious attacks,
and so on. But then they get to and say, well,
are we going to be in the back with the black folk? Some of them did you see?
Cause you've got a rich tradition of progressive Jews, Noam Chomsky.
When he got back there, Stanley Aronowitz,
would've got back there with the black folk. You see what I mean?
But you got some other Jewish folk, like any other group. Well,
we kind of lukewarm, let's just kind of move back and forth.
And then some of them want to assimilate completely.
Especially the highbrow German Jews were actually white,
as well as the Gentiles in America.
Now get beyond that old world prejudice, you say, well,
you better check yourself because every Christian civilization we know is shot
through with Jewish hatred,
don't don't believe the hype sooner or later is going to be manifest.
You see what I mean? And so in that way, you can see the discourse of whiteness,
blackness, brownness, redness, and so forth become so,
so deeply rooted in American law, American structures,
American perceptions.
And this is why the arts are so crucial because it's primarily in the
music and in the arts where the breakdown of white
supremacy begins to take place in the country. It's not the politicians.
It really isn't. It really is,
is no accident that the first massive form of entertainment in the United States
is what the menstruals and blackface. And you say, well,
what was going on with black fists,
Eric Latin others have talked about the love and theft. On the one hand,
there's a fear of black freedom because black freedom somehow
means less freedom for whites. There's a fear of black creativity,
because that means maybe white supremacy is a lie. Maybe they're human,
just like us. Maybe they just, as creative, imaginative,
and talented just like us. Then they hit it music. And they say, oh,
they got something going on in the black side of town. But we don't know.
It was like you going to see prior, right? If somebody had told you all brother,
Joe White supremacy, America tells you that black creativity,
black intelligence, black genius doesn't exist.
And you go see pride with your parents and you go away thinking just Negro's a
genius. Somebody lied to me. I got to recognize that.
And then you recognize those, the whole tradition of prior.
And we can go on and on from the Coltrane, Sarah VOD and on and on and on.
Right? And so people begin to think, especially white brothers and sisters,
our parents had been lying to us when it comes to black intelligence,
imagination and genius and humanity.
And yet the structures make it difficult for us to come together.
We're talking about up until 1960. That's a long time though, 1776,
that 1964 and five.
That's a long time for both slavery and Neal slavery to be in
place.
And here we are now 54 years later trying to create a multiracial
democracy, which is a beautiful, beautiful thing.
And it's already been enacted in the, uh,
in jazz groups slash stones bands.
Multi-racial the combination.
The studying of the comments is that you all have you sit down with comics,
you all talk about the juniors across race and gender, gender, gene, and gender,
as if it's a natural thing that already shatters the white supremacists and in
nets in male supremacist categories, whiteness, blackness,
all in different silos, but it's so hard to do it on the ground.
The part of the problem of talking about race in American,
this is why I've been very critical of a number of contemporary black
intellectuals because white supremacy cuts so deep in the culture.
People begin to think it has magical powers.
And somehow it just floats above American history as if it's just part of our
DNA in a biological way.
But all conceptions of race in the modern world are
grounded in predatory capitalism.
So that the talk about whiteness and blackness becomes a
way of rationalizing social structures like slavery and
Jim Crow.
And it has to do with trying to extract labor
resources. It's an attack on their humanity and identity,
but it's tied to economic structure.
So to talk only about race means we hide and conceal the
social structure that are generating unbelievable suffering for
everybody, everybody you see. And so, uh,
the last thing you want is talk about race.
I'd say something about gender and the way gender is much more complicated
because gender has been around for so,
so long every culture that we know almost,
but in modern conceptions of race are tied to modern conceptions of predatory
capitalism here and abroad, which includes imperialism, which includes empires.
So the United States comes out of the British empire.
We engage in the ROIC,
courageous revolt against the British empire.
It was a magnificent struggle.
That's what I like about George Washington and Thomas Jefferson,
because I'm an anti-imperialist, they were an anti-imperialist.
Now they're urban gorillas. They picking up guns. They fighting,
I don't go that far, but there are also white supremacists. You see?
So as soon as they overthrow or push back the British empire,
what do you get in the declaration of independence?
Beautiful words about equality, but you also get savages.
We've got to take their land and you get an empire of Liberty.
This is where the comics come in. What does an empire of Liberty look like?
Who's not in on the Liberty is a whole lot of people not in on it.
Oh, that was Carlin. Right?
Carlin had his bit about this country was founded by slave owners who wanted to
be free.
That's right. And talk about the American dream. You got to be. Yeah.
You gotta be dreaming to believe it.
We sleep.